# <center> Machine-Unlearning  💾 🪓

Can we make a deep learning model ‘forget’ a subset of its training data? Aside from being scientifically interesting, achieving this goal of deep machine unlearning is increas- ingly important and relevant from a practical perspective. Regulations such as EU’s General Data Protection Regula- tion (Mantelero, 2013) stipulate that individuals can request to have their data ‘deleted’ (the ‘right to be forgotten’). Nowadays, given the ubiquity of deep learning systems in a wide range of applications, including computer vision, natu- ral language processing, speech recognition and healthcare, allowing individuals to exercise this right necessitates deep unlearning algorithms. This is the most common motivating scenario for developing unlearning algorithms.
However, unlearning has several additional important ap-


We argue that, depending on the application of interest, un- learning comes with different desiderata, perhaps preferring different methods accordingly. For example, for a privacy application, ‘forgetting’ the data of users who requested deletion is the primary objective, and reliably defending against membership inference attacks is key, even if doing so degrades the model’s performance to some extent. In other applications, like the deletion of outdated data for keeping a trained model current, maintaining the model’s performance throughout such ‘cleanup’ operations may be the primary consideration, and guaranteeing that no trace of the old data is left behind is less important. While previous work does not establish such distinctions, we study several scenarios and propose a method that performs well on all.
Truly removing the influence of a subset of the training set from the weights of a trained model is hard, since deep mod- els memorize information about specific instances (Zhang et al., 2020; 2021; Arpit et al., 2017) and their highly non- convex nature makes it difficult to trace the effect of each example on the model’s weights. Of course, we can apply the naive solution of re-training the model from scratch without the cohort of data to be forgotten. This procedure indeed guarantees that the weights of the resulting model aren’t influenced by the instances to forget (it performs ‘ex- act unlearning’), but the obvious drawback is computational inefficiency: re-training a deep learning model to accommo- date each new forgetting request isn’t viable in practice.
To mitigate the cost of exact unlearning, recent research has turned to approximate unlearning (Izzo et al., 2021; Golatkar et al., 2020a;b). The goal, as defined in these works, is to modify the weights of the trained model in order to produce a new set of weights that approximates those that would have been obtained by the exact procedure of re-training from scratch. That is, they strive to achieve
‘indistinguishability’ between the models produced by the exact and approximate solutions, typically accompanied by theoretical guarantees for the quality of that approximation. This goal of indistinguishability is also mirrored in the met- rics they use: the model’s error on the deleted data is desired
